{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf160
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17500\viewh16480\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Embedthis Ejscript
\fs14 \super TM
\b0\fs28 \nosupersub \
\
Welcome to the Embedthis Ejscript distribution. Ejscript is a powerful JavaScript framework. It includes an enhanced implementation of the JavaScript language, supports ECMAScript Edition 6 with classes, modules and an extensive system library.\
\
This document describes the installation procedure for the binary Ejscript package. This package contains pre-built language tools including an interpreter, compiler, vm, documentation generator and assembler listing program as well as the development libraries and headers needed to embed Ejscript in an application. \
\
You can read the documentation for the latest release online at:\
\
    http://embedthis.com/products/ejs/doc/product/index.html\
\
This software is copyrighted and distributed under license. Please read the license.rtf for details.\
\
\
Table of Contents\
\
* System Requirements\
* Installation Package Formats\
* Development Environment Platform Support\
* Removing Ejscript\
* Apple MAC OS X  Release Details\
* Windows Release Details\
* Running Ejscript\
* Building the Source Code\
* License and Copyright Information\
\
System Requirements\
\
Binary Package Operating System Support\
\
    * Windows Windows 7,8 (x86,x64)\
    * Mac OS X 10.9\
\
For other operating systems, download the source package and build then install.\
Supported operating systems via source code:\
\
    * Linux 2.6 (x86,x64,arm,ppc,sparc,mips)\
    * VxWorks 6.7 (x86,arm,ppc,sparc,mips)\
\
To install and build Ejscript, your development system will need at least the following:\
\
    * 50 MB Disk\
    * 1 GB RAM\
\
To deploy Ejscript in an embedded environment, you will need at least the following:\
\
    * 2 MB Disk / ROM space\
    * 2 MB RAM\
\
To rebuild Ejscript from source code on your development system, you will need at least:\
\
    * 500 MB disk space\
\
\
Installation Package Formats\
\
The Ejscript binary installation is published in two formats:\
\
    * Native Apple MAC OS X PKG format\
    * Native Windows installer format\
\
For other platforms, you will need to download the source code distribution and build then install. The product documentation describes how to build from source. \
\
See below for operating system specific installation information.\
\
\
Development Environment Platform Support\
\
If you wish to embed Ejscript in your application or build Ejscript from source code, you will need to use a C compiler and associated development tools.  Several development environments are supported.  You may choose any of the following:\
\
    * Linux/Unix GNU Tools\
\
    * Windows Visual Studio 2010\
\
    * WindRiver Tornado Development Tools\
\
\
Apple Mac OS X Release Details\
\
To install the native MAC OS X PKG image:\
\
   1. Download the PKG image.\
\
   2. Double click on the PKG file image\
\
   3. Answer the questions as prompted.\
\
\
Removing Ejscript\
\
This is the procedure to remove Ejscript on all systems except Windows.\
\
   1. Change directory to the installation directory for Ejscript. This is usually /usr/local/lib/ejs/latest.\
\
   2. Run the uninstall script in the install directory for Ejscript by typing \
\
      sudo ./uninstall\
\
\
\
Windows Release Details\
\
To install the Windows Installer image:\
\
   1. Login with administrator privileges. This is necessary as the binary \
      installation needs to install a Windows Service.\
\
   2. Use WinZip or equivalent software to extract the installation image. This\
      will extract the README.TXT and setup.exe from the zip archive.\
\
   3. Double click on the setup.exe image to run it.\
\
\
Removing Ejscript on Windows\
\
If you installed the Ejscript Windows Installer image, follow these steps to \
remove Ejscript. If you installed the Tar self-install image, you will need \
to remove Ejscript manually. \
\
   1. Login with administrator privileges\
\
   2. Run the Add / Remove Programs applet from the control panel.\
\
   3. Select the Embedthis Ejscript and choose remove.\
\
\
Running Ejscript\
\
The Ejscript product installation includes a simple command line interpreter that can be invoked by typing:\
\
    ejs\
\
This command responds with the following prompt:\
\
ejs>\
\
Ejscript commands can be entered and results will be echoed to the console.  See the user documentation for further details.\
\
Running Ejscript on Windows\
\
On windows, the installation creates a Programs shortcut for the "ejs" Ejscript command shell.  Clicking on it will run "ejs" in a command window.  To run "ejs" from a command window manually, you may need to add the Ejscript installation bin directory to your path. This is usually the C:/Program Files/Embedthis Ejscript/bin directory. You can do this by running the System applet from the Control Panel and selecting the Advanced tab and then the Environment Variables button at the bottom of the page. Add this directory to the setting for the PATH use variable.\
\
\
Building from the Source Code\
\
If you wish to rebuild the Ejscript product from the distributed source code, please download the source code distribution from the Embedthis web site. Then read "Building from Source" in the Ejscript product documentation for an explanation of the necessary steps to successfully rebuild the product.\
\
\
License and Copyright Information\
\
This software is supplied under license. Both a GNU and commercial license are available. Please read LICENSE.TXT for details. This documentation and the software described in this document may be used and copied only in accordance with the terms of the accompanying license agreement. Product and technical information in this document is subject to change without notice and does not represent a commitment on the part of Embedthis Software LLC.\
\
Copyright (c) Embedthis Software LLC, 2003-2014. All Rights Reserved.\
\
Embedthis is a trademark of Embedthis Software LLC. Embedthis, Appweb and Ejscript are trademarks of Embedthis Software. All other brand or product names are the trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders.\
\
\
Embedthis Software, LLC.\
4616 25th Ave NE, #733\
Seattle, WA 98105.\
+1 (425) 329-3490\
embedthis.com.com\
info@embedthis.com
\b \
}